one two three four one two three four stop check and be sure this is february 19 sitting in the uh lobby of the rudder uh auditorium ready to chat with jane lester about being one of the first coeds in the 1960s jane try your mic okay uh i was
co-ed in the fall of 1963, which was the first year.
Jane, since someone who hears this or reads it in years after this might not know your background,
Describe where you grew up and what you did and so forth before coming to A&M in the fall of 63.
Okay.
I was born on September the 3rd, 1942 in Electra, Texas.
My dad worked for a continental oil company as a, he made gasoline is what he did.
He moved around quite a bit with an oil company and we moved when I was a junior in high school to Andrews, Texas and that's where I graduated from high school.
I went from Andrews to Lubbock to Texas Tech for two and a half years and when the decree came down that Texas A&M would admit co-eds, my husband
asked me to marry him, and so we did that summer, and in the fall of 1963, we headed to College Station, Texas.
Your answer infers that y'all might not have gotten married at that time if women had not been admissible.
I don't think we would have.
Now, you had known him for a long time in high school?
We were in high school together, yes.
And so you came after two years at Tech.
What was your major?
At Tech, yes, I was there two and a half years, in fact.
I had gone to summer school, and I was majoring in elementary education.
And he was in the same, academically he was in the same graduating class from high school and so forth.
Yes, we both graduated from high school in 1961.
Alright, had you visited A&M College Station before you came to live here?
I had been here, I guess one time, I came down on spring break, stayed with my sister who was married at that time and lived in College Station and just spent the spring break time
with her and her husband, and I had ridden a train from Lubbock to College Station, and then I rode a train back to Lubbock from College Station.
Now, was the purpose of the trip to see a special young man?
Yes, it was.
What was it like to visit as a non-student then?
Describe that weekend.
Well, it was...
Actually, I stayed the whole week.
It was spring break, and it was spring break at both schools, so there really wasn't any students here.
We just enjoyed visiting.
I didn't get to see my sister very much because we were so far apart.
It was track season, and he was on the track team, and we attended some track meets that week.
Describe your impression of College Station and of Texas A&M.
Well, I thought it was just a little town.
I didn't really think that it was, I mean, I didn't think it was as
as Lubbock was.
I mean, it was like coming from the city to the country.
It was laid back.
There wasn't a lot of traffic, as I recall.
In fact, I don't think a lot of kids even had cars that were, you know, at school.
Y'all got married then and come here in the fall of 63?
We married in August of 63 and we chose our wedding date because it was the last weekend in August and that would give us two weeks to get everything together and get our U-Haul trailer packed and move to College Station.
And that's what we did.
Describe your belongings.
Describe what y'all brought.
We brought our clothes, our shower gifts, which were pots, pans, sheets, towels, and that sort of thing.
We moved into Hintzel Apartments, which were considered very nice at that time.
And it was furnished, and we didn't have any furniture.
We had just, and it was not air conditioned.
I remember that.
And you got here when it was still hot.
Oh, yes.
We got here about the second weekend in September because school back then didn't start until the middle of September, probably the 15th or so.
And so we were here about a week.
And humidity nearly killed me because, I mean, I was, although not used to necessarily every place I was air conditioned, it was just so hard to even sleep at night when the humidity is so high.
Describe, since Hensel Apartments are now gone, describe that project,
I didn't know the pencil was gone.
It was considered really nice.
It was downstairs and upstairs, and we had an upstairs apartment.
It was a brick and mortar type apartment.
It was just a bedroom, a bathroom, and a kitchen that was very small with a living and eating area all in one room.
And you got acquainted quickly with your neighbors?
Oh, all of our neighbors were just like we were.
I mean, just so poor.
And most of them, the wives worked and did not go to school.
They were, you know, putting husband through.
And I got acquainted with the people that lived around me.
And also there was a lot of...
foreign people that were in Hensel apartments.
That was a new experience for me.
I had not been around.
Where were they from?
What nations?
They were, I would call them Middle Easterners, like Pakistanis, maybe some Egyptians and things like that.
And I can remember that also we had neighbors who were from
I believe it was Cincinnati, Ohio, and he was here on a National Science Foundation scholarship, and he had a little girl like eight and a little boy like six, and they lived in Hensel apartment.
They were making do.
What was it?
Do you remember what the rent was?
Yes, I do.
It was $65 a month.
That was a lot of money.
Did you and your husband have kind of a monthly budget?
Yes, Coker's family was able to help us, and that was how we were both able to, you know, attend school.
So that was really nice for us.
Now, and I'm getting ready to chat with you about being a co-ed.
Okay.
Please give as many examples, positive and negative as possible, of what it was like.
You come over, I presume you had already been admitted.
Yes, I was admitted.
That was by mail, I presume.
As far as I can remember, it was.
I don't remember any visits to any place.
And you are, you were a transfer student.
That's right.
And you came over then to register and that was held in Cebisa?
Yes it was.
Describe.
Well, actually it wasn't as bad as what I'd been going through at Tech so, and my husband was there to guide me and
I had been told what I, I had visited with an advisor before I went to register.
And they did not have elementary education.
I mean, they just looked at me like I was
you know, crazy for even thinking that somebody would be at Texas A&M wanting to study elementary education.
And so they suggested I just change my major to education, which I did.
And they told me, they suggested what I should take.
And some of the classes I took, I could never see where, you know, it was really gonna help me.
For instance, they told me that all education majors had to take geography.
And I thought, oh, well, that stands to reason, you know, if we're going to be teaching little ones, we need to know some geography.
Well, so I went to this, so I registered for that, and I went to my first class.
And as I recall, it was taught by, like, a gentleman who was
somebody that had something to do with the Corps of Cadets.
I mean, he came in a uniform, which was fine.
I mean, I didn't have a problem with that.
I was one, I was the only girl in my class of about 20 men.
And so far they have not mentioned any rivers or anything yet about geography, which I consider geography.
These young men, it seemed, were going to be Air Force pilots.
And we talked a lot about clouds and wind currents.
And I mean, I was so lost from the first day.
I just, it was just unreal to me.
And I would go home and I would say, I just know that this is not what I thought geography was.
But I stuck it out.
And one thing about that class that's always sort of tugged at my heart is there I was in 1963.
And all of these young men who were probably about my age were in their corps uniforms and they were going to be going to Vietnam.
And I've always wondered how many of them did not come back.
That was when those same years for me when I went to muster and would hear the roll called.
I would hear some names that I'd had in class maybe only two years at the most before that.
Back to registration.
You stood in line.
Did anybody, were there any pleasantries or unpleasantries that you recall from that first?
I don't remember anybody smiling.
Okay.
They just wanted to sign my little card or
my papers or whatever it was and let me get my money, and that's all they cared about.
So, I mean, and as I remember, because I was a transfer student, I had to go kind of at the end.
Okay.
And there was not the push and shove.
Oh, okay.
Of what it probably was at another time.
And you took a full load.
Yes, sir.
Fifteen hours.
Describe the routine of being a young wife and a full-time student and a housekeeper.
I, it was, you know, it was difficult because it was adjustment of being a wife and then going to school at the same time and everything, but, you know, I managed to do it.
There's not much housekeeping to be done in a little apartment like that.
I did try to spend a lot of time studying.
And, of course, I was wanting my husband to study, too, so.
What was his major?
His major is, uh,
Finance.
And did he continue on the track team after y'all got married?
No, after we were married he dropped off and did not participate in that, right.
Let's see, that first semester were there some people that you met that became and you now realize were very important to you in your A&M experience?
Teachers, friends, advisors?
No, there's really not.
I found that basically they did not want women in their classes.
Give some examples.
Well, I took zoology.
I'd already had biology before I came here, and so they told me I needed another science, and I took zoology.
I was the only girl in the lecture.
It was in a big auditorium, and that was not bad, but in the lab, they
just talked just like they had talked when there was only boys in that class.
And you've got to remember now, this was 1963, and Women's Live had not roused its head.
And there were times it was really hard to step there, but you did it.
Now you're saying both the instructor and the students.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, I mean, that's just the way it was.
And I guess you could say being a submissive person, you just did it.
I mean, nobody hollered harassment in 1963.
And being the only girl, it could have been also that they never even thought about things had changed.
But I often felt like they'd rather not have girls.
Nobody ever, you know, said to me, I don't, I didn't want girls in my class.
But there was just that man's mentality that that's the way it had always been.
And I accept that because there's times when I think it might have been better if girls hadn't come, you know.
I don't want to lose the traditions.
What about in your education classes?
Who, the first ones here?
See, I didn't take any education classes.
I took economics under Mr. Putnam.
Can you describe him?
What a gentleman.
The first day in class, he was probably of a class of about 35.
And he went around and asked everybody their name.
And when I told him my name, he stopped.
And he kind of turned his back to the class.
And he turned around and he said, what's your father-in-law's name?
And I told him what it was.
And he said, oh, OK.
Well, all those boys in the class just went, oh God, she's got an A. Well, it seems that Coach Putnam was a track coach.
And so that was the connection right there.
And he was quite a man.
I learned a lot from him.
I had never had economics except, you know, just high school, but it's barely an economics class.
So I did learn a lot about economics from him, and that was probably the class that was the least offensive, you know, and maybe it was because he knew my father-in-law and he didn't want to say anything that was
Now, by and large, you were quite often the only?
I was the only girl in every class.
In every class.
Every class I went to.
Now, was this the first fall?
Yes.
Okay.
And, of course, you were admitted because your husband was an Aggie student.
Right.
Okay.
Do you remember any kind of gathering of young coeds early that fall?
Any kind of getting together?
The only thing I ever did was, and it was a wives club, it was the finance wives club and that was the only thing that was girls and as far as I know none of them went to school.
It was difficult to even find a ladies room at that time.
I mean, very difficult.
And between two of my classes, as I remember, I only had one class on Friday morning.
And so on Tuesdays and Thursdays, I had an hour between two of my classes.
And it was hard to even find a place to go and just sit down.
There was nothing.
And finally there was, I believe it was in the academic building, there was a ladies restroom on the first floor and there was chairs and a sofa in there and before the semester over there was about three other
ladies who were considerably older than I was.
I feel sure that they were probably community people who just went to school.
You know, an opportunity was open for them and they went to school.
Would come in, I mean, we could, you know, at least there was a place to sit down for this hour, you know.
But it was, there was not anything.
But nobody said anything because that's just the way it was.
And I presume you walked from Hensel Park?
No.
From, I mean, Hensel Apartments?
No, we rode.
I mean, we drove.
Okay.
Yeah, we drove.
And I'm trying to think where we parked.
It seems like across, oh, I know where we parked.
In the, across from G. Raleigh White was a parking lot.
And that's where we could park in there.
Lot 60.
I don't know.
I just know that's where we could park.
Uh-huh.
So describe the routine of a typical Monday through Friday day for you.
Got up what time and got to campus?
Well, we're both kind of early risers, and so we always had at least classes by 9 o'clock.
I mean, you know, we were, and usually, I believe that I was always through by noon on all my classes.
And I think that was another thing that was kind of surprising to register late like that and be able to, you know, have off your classes over in the morning.
Except I believe my zoology lab was like on a Tuesday afternoon.
You know, it was like four hours on a Tuesday afternoon or something like that.
But most of my classes were in the morning and got up, got breakfast, went to school, came home, ate lunch, studied, did all those other things that you do.
you know, enjoyed some of the campus life, of course.
Describe the campus, the major campus buildings when you first got here.
What were the places made you?
Well, I had, well, I had geography, that wonderful geography class, and the history building, I believe it was called.
Nagel Hall.
Okay, Nagel Hall.
And then, I believe,
I don't remember what building I had zoology in, but I had other classes in the academic building, I believe.
The English and the economics class.
Did you and your husband come to the MSC much?
Oh, yes.
Everybody came to the MSC.
I mean, it was a hub, I guess you would say.
I mean, it was just, it's kind of hard to describe the camaraderie that you get to be a part of.
But right now, you know, as my husband says, nobody bleeds maroon more than Jane does.
Let me, as an aside, tell you this one.
In doing these interviews, one of the people I interviewed was former Speaker Clayton, former Speaker of the House, Billy Clayton.
He indicated that he was in the legislature
when this decision was made for women to be admitted.
It was his first term and he said he opposed it, but he didn't publicly do anything.
And I said, oh really?
Why did you oppose it?
And he said, I thought the women wouldn't have any spirit as Aggies.
And I grinned
And he said, well, do the coeds have any Aggie pride now?
And I said, sir, as far as I can tell, the women have more than the men do.
And he quickly hit the table with a smile, hit his fist on a smile, and he said, good, because my three granddaughters are all there.
The, as you first were here, did fish say hello to you on the sidewalk?
Did people greet coeds?
Yes, that was one thing that will always
you know, stand out in my mind is the respectfulness of the Corps.
I mean, they just, I mean, they held doors for women.
I'm not sure they do it in 19, or 2000, but in 1963, they still had a lot of respect for women, even though I felt like they really did not want girls in their domain.
They were respectful, they would,
nod to you, you know, howdy, hold doors for you.
If you dropped your pencil on the floor, they would pick it up for you.
I mean, it was a very polite society.
Did anyone, did any young man, perhaps not aware that you were married, ever try to wink or ask for a date or anything like that?
No.
Okay.
No, not that, no, it never happened.
And let's see, did you all eat in the MSC cafeteria or anything like that?
Oh, we might have on occasion, but usually we just, you know, ate at home.
All right, so you were in class here two years?
One semester.
Oh, one semester?
Oh.
Okay, I, yes, we laid out of, we went that first semester and then we did not go the next semester and then we came back and in the meantime I had gotten pregnant and the baby was due in December and, you know, I just did not go back to school.
All right, did you live back in the Hensel again?
Yes, we did.
The second time?
All right, so with that schedule, and now were the other young wives around you, were they helpful to this expectant mother?
Yes, they were.
Well, more helpful to me after I became a mother.
Oh, okay.
I mean, I had never...
I had never been around babies.
I had a little nephew, but I had never really, I mean, it's just one of those things that happen to you, you know.
And, I mean, the lady downstairs for me, if she, I don't know what I would have done without her.
I mean, the first time the baby was sick, I didn't,
I just didn't even know what to do.
And she was so good.
And she was a mother with two children, and she was able to help me, you know.
But I only actually attended school that one semester at A&M.
The baby was born here?
Yes.
Dr. Roman, bless his little heart, he delivered my little Leanne.
Bill Roman.
Uh-huh.
Describe his thoughtfulness.
Oh, Dr. Roman, what can you say about that man?
He is a case.
He was just the jolliest, funniest fella I've ever known.
And the day I was in the hospital delivering her, he sat on the end of my bed and told the sisters dirty jokes.
I don't know if he wants that on the tape or not, but, I mean, you may not want to do that, but it was just, I mean, he was a light in our life.
He really was, you know.
Describe St.
Joseph Hospital at that point.
It was a very old,
She was born December the 5th and it was the first, it snowed while I was there.
First time in 25 years that it had snowed in College Station, Texas.
And it was very, very cold.
That's the old St.
Joseph just north of downtown instead of south.
Back to that fall when you were young, newlywed, you went to football games.
Yes, I did.
Describe going to your first Aggie football game.
Well, I mean, I just loved it.
It was just the most exciting thing that I'd ever done in my whole life.
And I told my husband at that time, I said, I will be glad.
I mean, you know, got tired of standing.
But I was a good sport.
And I told my husband, I said, we've got to graduate so we can have a chair.
And I just loved it.
I just, the spirit, the, I don't, it's just hard for me to have words to describe how wonderful I think this place is.
Did you all go to midnight yell practice?
Oh yes, of course.
We did all those things.
Now were there any traditions, whether real or imaginary, were there any traditions at A&M
that you did not know about until you got here?
Yes, the fish dunking the hill leaders.
I did not know about that.
I mean, I had been to other, at Tech, I had been to football games where the Aggies were there, but it's a lot different, you know, at that campus.
And you knew what happened after the Aggies score?
Yes, yes.
I already knew that.
I've always wondered what would be the reaction of a young woman who had a blind date and didn't know that tradition.
Well, I'm sure that happened over the years.
Let's see.
Other traditions that impressed you?
Oh, I think one thing that really impressed me as much as anything is the tradition of the ring.
That was really a highlight in my husband's life when he got that senior ring.
I mean, it was a biggie.
How much did it cost?
You know, I don't know, but I would guess that it wasn't
I would guess around maybe $25 to $35, but I wouldn't know if that was right or not.
It wasn't an astronomical amount of money.
Are there any ring stories in your family of where it was lost or somebody spotted it?
There sure is.
Now that you say that, my husband graduated and he got his first job and as fate would have it, it was back in Andrews working for an oil company.
The oil company, there was really no young, really young ones like we were, but they had a lot of friendships, and they had office parties, and one day we went out to an office party at a park, and there was a volleyball game, and my husband lost his Aggie ring.
Well, I mean, it was the saddest, we were just heartbroken, and everybody just walked and walked and walked until we found that Aggie ring.
And, you know, and then we've had, he's had one stolen also when our house was robbed, so that was really sad, but... Wait, oh, and it was stolen?
Yes.
Oh.
Yes, it was stolen.
He had...
He had been given some savings bonds, I believe, when he was born.
And he had never cashed them.
And so he took the savings bonds and bought a diamond to go in his Aggie ring.
And he lost the diamond out of that Aggie ring.
And they were so expensive to buy.
I mean, it was so expensive to replace the diamond, it was cheaper for him to buy a new Aggie ring.
And so that's what he did.
So he had two.
And he lost some weight, and he couldn't wear the second one, so I gave him the original diamond out of my engagement ring to put in that Aggie ring, because I wanted him to wear that Aggie ring.
He had been wearing that, and he gained the weight back.
And the one with the diamond, the first one, was in.
We had moved from West Texas back to Houston, and it had not been put in the lockbox, and our home was burglarized.
And so somebody's wearing an Aggie ring.
It shouldn't be.
Let's see, back to A&M days.
Do you remember any, either direct or indirect, do you remember any kind of Aggie Good Bull?
Jokes, pranks that you all knew about?
Of course, when we were here is the times that all of the mascots were being stolen.
And it was just really exciting when they started, I think it was Mr. Lupot that had sort of maybe helped with that when they stole Bevo and they couldn't find him and there was just reports on the radio about
Well, he was sighted at such and such out here south of town or such and such north of town, you know, and it was kind of a stink, but it was really fun.
I had some of those students in class, I learned later.
Well, and my husband said, had he not been married, he would have probably been involved in anything.
And today, of course, those kids would get kicked out of school.
Yeah.
This would be horrible.
What did a young married co-ed wear to class?
How did you dress?
Well, just like I did before I was at A&M.
I wore loafers and socks and skirts and sweaters.
But not slacks.
No slacks.
No jeans, no slacks.
That's what I thought.
And how did you carry your books and stuff to class?
Just carried them in my arms.
I didn't have a backpack.
Today's youngsters can't imagine that they could exist without a backpack.
Right.
Let's see, were there any other teachers or advisors that you had that semester that we haven't mentioned so far?
Well, there is a man that was my English professor and I, for the life of me, we have not been able to think of his name.
But he was very good.
I have to say that I believe my professors were very good.
And I learned from them.
This gentleman, he was a little fella.
He wasn't very tall.
And I remember that he had the darkest circles under his eyes.
I never will forget that.
Wasn't it Louie Hauer?
I don't know.
This man was, of course, I was young and thought he was probably really old.
And he probably really wasn't old.
But he was, it was the literature.
And I learned so much from him about, he was really big on symbolism and how it affects the story that the author is telling.
And even today when I read, I think, I wonder what that's a symbol for, you know?
So I think I really took something from that class.
He was a man that was,
very involved with the Alley Theater in Houston.
And I mean, that's where he spent his weekends.
I mean, he was really into this.
But I just can't remember his name, but he was a very good teacher.
But again, I was the only girl in that class.
So let's see.
You didn't know any of this.
He didn't have a nickname.
At about that time, the faculty nicknames began to disappear.
Right, and you know, he probably did, but I do not know.
I just don't know what his name was.
Compare the academic rigor of the courses here with what you had had at Tech.
Any difference?
I can't say that there was much difference.
I mean, I was taking things that were geared for one way at Tech and then I'm here.
It's more like I had become an adult when I came here because, I mean, I was taking economics and not children's literature and geography that really wasn't geography to me, you know.
So it was like I had gone from a child to an adult.
And so in terms of whatever grades you made, what it took to make that grade wasn't particularly different here, the grading?
It might have been a little tougher, I think.
Is that right?
Oh, okay.
I think it might have been a little tougher.
Maybe they, I don't know, maybe they...
I don't want to say they expected more, but maybe they, I mean at A&M, but maybe they, it was just maybe the mentality of the military part.
Did you have the impression that you were expected to be in class every day?
Oh, yes, sir, but I was raised where you sign up for a job, you do the job.
The MSC, what role did it play in students' lives as far as you were?
It was like the hub.
I remember the mailbox was there.
Well, we didn't because we got mail delivery, but before I came, I know that my husband had a mailbox
there that he would go to check the PO as he says and there was a really nice gift shop in there and if we had to have a gift we could go in there and get that gift.
You could eat and you could meet your friends.
I mean it was important.
MSC was very important.
Did you all go to any concerts?
Oh yeah, we went to see the Lucy Ann Hayride.
I think we saw that twice.
And once Jerry Lee Lewis was there, and that was just the wildest thing I'd ever seen in my whole life.
But that was really good.
I mean, it was full when we went.
Now how did Aggies behave at concerts and things like that?
Well, I think they behaved like, probably not like kids do today.
But like, I mean, they had a great time and were responsive to the people that were performing, you know, but they were also polite.
I mean, that's just how Aggies are.
They were just polite.
Let's see, did y'all participate in any religious activities?
Yes, we went to church here.
Which?
It was a Baptist church, and I cannot...
Was it at Northgate or First Baptist Church?
I think that's where it was, it was at Northgate.
That was the First Baptist, now they moved south.
Okay, I believe it was the First Baptist.
Describe to a young, newlywed going church there what it was like.
Well, as I remember, there wasn't a lot of, of course we didn't go like we should have, but there was not a lot of students there that was mostly older people.
Did the church follow up?
Did anyone ever call on y'all?
I can't remember that.
I don't remember that.
And let's see.
Oh, did you go to Silver Taps ever?
I don't think I ever went to a Silver Taps.
I know that we could hear
the bugles playing on our balcony at Hensel Apartments.
And how, I mean, you know, it was a, it got, it was dark, and we could hear the, we could hear, of course, that was, I mean, that's been a long time ago, and there was no, not that, the cars were not, it wasn't a metropolitan area like it is now, yeah.
What about Mustard?
Did y'all go to Mustard?
I don't remember going to muster.
When he graduated, describe commencement.
It seems like it was in G. Raleigh White and we were so excited.
I can't even tell you how excited we were.
And it seems like that he, and why I remember this, I don't know, but the president of Campbell Soup spoke.
Oh, it was just a glorious day.
And we had a family picnic.
Afterwards, my husband graduated, and then my brother-in-law graduated.
I mean, they graduated at the same time.
And we had a family picnic, and it was just a wonderful day.
And one of my very favorite little snapshots I have is of my husband holding our little girl, who was at that time about 12 months old, I guess, in his cap and gown.
And I think that's the only picture we have of him in his cap and gown.
But it was a wonderful day.
And there wasn't that many people that even came to graduation.
I mean, there was plenty of seats.
We sat up in the stands, and then the graduates are down on the floor.
I don't even, I would think, I can't remember, but it seems like everybody graduated at one time.
I mean, everybody, there wasn't, there was just one, wasn't there?
And it seems like there was even empty chairs on the floor.
But every name was called.
Every name was called.
Every hand shaken.
Every hand shaken, you're right.
And he looked quickly inside the tube to be sure his diploma was in there.
Exactly.
Now, he was not in the Corps the last two years.
That's right.
Okay.
So there wasn't a commissioning ceremony?
No, there was not.
There was a time that I really wanted him to get back into the Corps.
I mean, I thought that'd be a great way to maybe travel and things like that, and I don't think he really ever seriously considered it, but
I guess I, in a selfish way, I'm glad he didn't because at the time we were really talking about it was the time of the Bay of Tonkin, I believe it's called.
And that was, you know, a real turning point.
I'm looking at other notes here for potential comments.
What did you think of Aggie Yell leaders?
Oh, I thought they were just fine.
I thought they were a leader.
Did you ever hear any talk about why weren't there women yell leaders?
No, but I'll be the first to say I hope there's never a woman yell leader.
I don't know that there's ever been a woman attempt to be.
I don't think that.
I mean, some things are just sacred as far as I'm concerned.
I mean, it was hard enough when the band had girls.
I sound like I'm on the other side, don't I?
Did you ever hear any mention of secret fraternities here?
No, I don't believe I did.
I remember that everybody that I knew and associated with us thought that fraternities and sororities were only for cookie-pusher schools.
Apparently, there have been at various times two ultra-ultra-secret groups, one called the TTs, True Texans,
and the other, the stickers, and this one goes way back to the 20s, maybe to the teens, and their symbol was the swastika.
Oh man, how awful.
But this is before the Nazi party discovered it.
Right, right.
The only purpose of either organization was to get one of their own to be corps commander, senior class president, and so forth.
It was for leadership, but it was to be one of our guys to be leadership.
Well, that would not surprise me.
Things like that do happen.
And so far in doing all these interviews, I have never interviewed anybody who really knows anything about it.
They say, well, I understand that there might have been, and two or three people that I've interviewed I think are certain to have been members.
Let's see, the Hensel Park was pretty well full in those days, but it's all the apartments.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah, that was, I mean, that was really considered,
Fine living.
Yeah.
It really was.
About what percentage, you said there were some international couples, as you would recall, about what percentage were U.S.
students and what percentage?
Oh, I would say it was 98% U.S.
U.S., okay.
And, but there were some foreign students and I mean that was really foreign to me.
And were most of them undergraduates?
I do not know the answer to that.
And there were not any... They were families.
Yeah.
So I would, if I were thinking about it, I would say they were probably graduate students.
Okay.
And were there any activities to try to get all of the Hensel apartment students together?
If there were, I never heard of them.
There wasn't a picnic or a... Not that I ever heard of, uh-uh.
When you went shopping, where did you go to buy?
Oh, that was a...
I will never forget that that wine garden supermarket was the biggest thing I'd ever seen in my life.
Of course, I was from the country, so.
But we went to the little shopping center that's... Manor East.
Yes.
I did not know the name of it.
Right, that's exactly where we went.
It had opened in the late 50s.
Okay.
And because we got here in 59 and we thought it was a big shopping center.
Yeah, it was a really nice place to go shop, you're right.
So you bought groceries at Manor East.
If you were going to buy any ladies' clothing, where did you shop?
Well, you didn't buy any.
I don't remember buying any.
I do remember there was an SNH green stamp store right there.
but don't really remember buying any clothes.
I do remember that there was a Penny's in downtown Bryan, but that's, you know, I just didn't, shopping wasn't then like it is now.
Now, I know you didn't, your budget didn't allow you to eat out much, but when you all ate out, where did you go?
It seems like there was a, what is it called?
Was it Shipley's that had the double-faced hamburgers?
I mean, it was two pieces of bread, two pieces of meat, and two pieces, and they came and it was covered with French fries.
That's Shipley's, I believe, is where we would.
As far as you know, where did the students go to have a big time on a Saturday night?
Oh, man.
Now, if my husband was here, he could probably tell you, but after we got married, there wasn't many big times on Saturday night.
I know that I've heard stories about how they all went to Snook.
The Whiskey Bridge.
Well, I just know it's called Snook.
I don't know what it was or where, yeah.
Because the first, the county west of us, you could buy a whiskey.
Okay, okay.
And right across the river.
That's right.
I remember that.
Yes, I do.
There was a little country store there at Whiskey Bridge.
But I think there must have been a dance hall at Snook or something.
Or SPJ.
Yes, or something right.
Now, I have never heard any mention of any kind of place where women were available for Aggie students.
You as a young woman, you didn't hear.
I've never heard of such.
There was a place for beer.